.\" This file generated automatically by mtex2man(1)
.nh
.TH "escjava" "1"
.SH "NAME"
\fBescjava\fR \- Checks Java source files for possible errors
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBescjava\fR \fIoptions\fR \fIsource_filename\fR...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The \fBescjava\fR command takes a list of Java source files (i.e.,
\fIfilename\fR.java) and checks the classes contained within those
files for possible errors.  If the \fB\-depend\fR option is supplied, then
any class on which a checked class depends will also be checked.
.PP
More information can be obtained from the ESC/Java User's Manual,
which is provided as
Technical Note 2000\-002,
Compaq Systems Research Center.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.PD 0
.RS 0

.TP 6
\fB\-bootclasspath\fR \fIpath\fR
Overrides \fBescjava\fR's built\-in path for locating .spec and
\&.class files for the system classes (java.lang.String, etc.)
with \fIpath\fR.  This option is provided so that files may be checked
against a different version of JDK than the one escjava comes with
(currently a version of JDK 1.2 augmented with a limited number of
spec files).  Note: if the \fB\-v\fR option is supplied, \fBescjava\fR will
print the complete classpath it is using when it starts up.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-classpath\fR \fIpath\fR
Sets the path to be used to locate user classes not supplied on the
command line to \fIpath\fR.  Overrides all previous \fB\-classpath\fR
options and the \fBCLASSPATH\fR environment variable.  The actual
classpath \fBescjava\fR uses is the user path followed by the
bootclasspath (see \fB\-bootclasspath\fR); this allows users to add new
\&.spec files for the system classes.  Note: if the \fB\-v\fR option
is supplied, \fBescjava\fR will print the complete classpath it is
using when it starts up.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-counterexample\fR
Causes a pretty printed version of the counterexample context to be
displayed after each warning message.  Elements
of the counterexample context that are almost certainly irrelevant are
not printed.  Use the \fB\-pcc\fR option to get the raw, unadulterated
counterexample context.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-depend\fR
Normally, \fBescjava\fR checks only the classes contained in the source
files given to it on the command line.  If the \fB\-depend\fR option is
given, however, \fBescjava\fR also checks any classes on which those
classes depend (including indirectly).
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-f\fR \fIfile\fR
Instructs \fBescjava\fR to append to the list of source files given
directly on the command line the files named on separate lines in
\fIfile\fR.  Multiple \fB\-f\fR flags may be used.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-loop\fR \fIn\fR
Instructs \fBescjava\fR to unroll loops \fIn\fR iterations.  The number
of iterations \fIn\fR can be specified in increments of one half; more
precisely, the syntax of \fIn\fR is a natural number optionally followed
by \fB.0\fR or \fB.5\fR.  A "half" iteration consists of evaluating the
initial guard, if any.  The default value for \fIn\fR is 1.5.  For faster,
less thorough checking, consider using a value of 1.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-nocheck\fR
Causes no extended static checking to be done.  Syntax and Java type
checking as well as verification\-condition generation is still
performed, however.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-notrace\fR
Do not print the execution trace that leads to the potential error
being warned about.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-nowarn\fR \fIcategory\fR
Turns off all extended static checking of type \fIcategory\fR.  See the
user manual for a complete list of valid categories.  If \fIcategory\fR
is \fBAll\fR, turns off all checking, which can be a useful option in
conjunction with the \fB\-warn\fR switch.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-plainwarning\fR
By default, \fBescjava\fR will sometimes accompany an error message with
selected details of the counterexample it found.  The \fB\-plainwarning\fR
option suppresses this information; this may be helpful when
\fBescjava\fR's output is to be fed to a program.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-quiet\fR
Turns off display of the progress messages that \fBescjava\fR normally
prints.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-routine\fR \fIroutinename\fR
If \fB\-routine\fR is used, \fBescjava\fR checks only the routines specified
by \fB\-routine\fR arguments.  The \fIroutinename\fR can either be a simple
method or constructor name (which specifies all routines with this name), or
a fully qualified routine signature (which specifies a routine uniquely).
For example, \fIroutinename\fR may be String or
java.lang.String.String(char[],int,int).
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-routineIndirect\fR \fIfile\fR
This option is equivalent to having the \fB\-routine\fR flag present and
using each line of \fIfile\fR as an argument to \fB\-routine\fR.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-start\fR \fIn\fR
This option causes \fBescjava\fR to start checking the first file on the
command line at line number \fIn\fR.  (Later files are checked from the
beginning as normal.)  Starting checking at line \fIn\fR means that
all possible warnings before line \fIn\fR are automatically nowarned.
(Only the possible warnings themselves are so nowarned, not their
associated declarations.  For example, \fBescjava\fR may still issue a
warning that a method declared after line \fIn\fR fails to maintain an
invariant declared before line \fIn\fR.)  Since no warnings would be
produced for types and type members whose declarations end before
line \fIn\fR, these are skipped.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-suggest\fR
After each warning, suggest an annotation that will suppress the
warning.  Although it is human\-readable, the suggestion is mainly
intended for use by the ESC/Java Annotation Wizard.  Note: the
suggestion may or may not correspond to the programmer's intended
design, so it may be inappropriate to actually follow the suggestion.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-v\fR
Turns on verbose mode, which causes \fBescjava\fR to print additional
information that may be helpful in some cases, for example when
debugging problems related to the classpath (since verbose mode prints
the complete classpath).
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-vclimit\fR \fIn\fR
Sets the maximum size verification condition that \fBescjava\fR will
attempt to verify.  Defaults to 500,000.  This limit exists to handle
the rare cases where \fBescjava\fR generates exponential\-size VCs.
.IP
.TP 6
\fB\-warn\fR \fIcategory\fR
Turns on all extended static checking of type \fIcategory\fR if it is
currently turned off.  See the user manual for a complete list of valid
categories.
.PD
.IP
.PD 0
.RE
.PD
.PP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.PP
Source\-file line numbers are counted starting at 1, while column numbers
are counted starting at 0, treating tabs as one character each.  When
source is displayed, however, tabs are expanded using 8\-space tab stops.
.PP
For more information, see the user's manual, and especially the section
entitled Warnings.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
The following environment variables affect the execution of
\fBescjava\fR:
.PP
.PD 0
.RS 0

.TP 6
\fBCLASSPATH\fR
If set, specifies the path to be used to locate user classes not
supplied on the command line.  Defaults to the current working
directory.  The \fB\-classpath\fR option overrides this variable.  Where
to find the system classes is specified separately using the
\fB\-bootclasspath\fR option.
.IP
.TP 6
\fBESCJ_SIMPLIFY\fR
If set, specifies the pathname to use to invoke the Simplify Theorem
prover.
.IP
.TP 6
\fBESCJ_SIMPLIFY_ARGS\fR
If set, specifies the arguments to pass to the Simplify Theorem prover
when it is invoked.  Defaults to "\-noprune \-noplunge".
.IP
.TP 6
\fBESCJ_STDARGS\fR
If set, specifies a set of default \fBescjava\fR arguments.  These
arguments will be processed before any command\-line arguments.
Currently defaults to "\-nowarn Deadlock".
.IP
.TP 6
\fBPROVER_CC_LIMIT\fR
If set, specifies the maximum number of warnings to generate per
routine.  Should be set to a positive integer.  Defaults to 10.
.IP
.TP 6
\fBPROVER_KILL_TIME\fR
If set, specifies a rough upper bound of how many seconds \fBescjava\fR
should spend attempting to prove error free any given method or
constructor.  Should be set to a positive integer greater than 50.
Defaults to 300 (5 minutes).
.PD
.IP
.PD 0
.RE
.PD
.PP
.SH "RELATED FILES"
.PP
.PD 0
.RS 0
.IP
.TP 6
escjava/examples/
This directory, where \fIescjava\fR denotes the directory into
which \fBescjava\fR is installed, contains example code.
.IP
.TP 6
escjava/lib/specs/
This directory, where \fIescjava\fR denotes the directory into
which \fBescjava\fR is installed,
contains .spec files for selected JDK library types.
It is considered part of the system libraries by \fBescjava\fR and is
thus included as part of the bootclasspath (see the \fB\-bootclasspath\fR
flag above).
.PD
.IP
.PD 0
.RE
.PD
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
Compaq Systems Research Center.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBCLASSPATH\fR, \fBJAVA\fR(5)
.PP
This file was generated automatically by mtex software; see the
mtex home page at http://www.research.digital.com/SRC/mtex/.
